there's no way i was thinking about
doing a mickey mouse game it'll love
disney grew up with disney never outgrew
disney but i don't make games for kids
and disney's done a really good job of
positioning mickey mouse as a character
just for kids so as it turns out i was
out pitching well i had a fantasy game
and a science-fiction game that's sort
of like you know deus ex what the serial
numbers filed off a little bit you know
and and I was pitching a bunch of
publishers on it and my my agent said we
should go talk to Disney I said well why
I mean I I know Disney better than
anybody they're not going to be
interested in this stuff and he said no
no no they're changing let's go talk to
him so I pitched these things i'm
sitting in a boardroom with all these
disney vice presidents and senior vice
presidents in the room and sure enough
midway through my pitch i see them
checking their blackberries you know and
ignoring me and I was thinking I'm gonna
kill my agent when I get out of here I'm
just wasted my tonight and but it turns
out what they were doing is they were
texting each other at the table to ask
if they should ask me if I wanted to do
the Mickey Mouse King so they did I said
no I don't make any for kids and I said
no no we want you to do whatever you
want with Mickey make the game you want
and so one thing led to another and i
ended up ended up doing it
and then fast forward to now you you
finished epic make it came out it's sold
really well for a third party Beach we
title and and I hear it's the best
selling single platform this new game
ever a lot of those accolades and then
but where did you stand when you finish
that of course you know everybody wants
a sequel but what's that the first thing
that you wanted to do and did you have
already ideas for the sequel at that
point before I start any project I mean
literally any project I have a process i
go through i don't talk about it too
much but no I have a I have a list of
questions I ask myself about a concept
and if I can't answer all them I know
it's not the right time to do that
project and one of the the parts of this
process after I get through my list of
seven questions is I I plan out at least
three games I come up with with
storyline a story arc from at least
three games and I plan out a sort of a
gameplay arc what new thing am I going
to put in each game you know because I
mean think about it a game takes me you
know minimum two years usually more like
three so if I'm going to do three or
four games i'm about to vote ten years
of my life to that world and those
characters so I did that with Mickey and
I had four stories actually I knew I
knew I could tell a four story arc about
Mickey and Oswald on wasteland and I
knew before we started working on the
first one that the second game was going
to introduce Oswald as a playable
character we were going to we're going
to take our first sort of tentative
steps into into co-op storytelling and I
knew we were going to introduce songs in
a safe non-threatening don't worry about
it gamers you're going to love this song
so k and I kind of know what we're going
to do in the third 1 in the fourth 1 if
we're lucky enough to do the funny thing
about that though is I always plan out
at least three stories but we never
actually end up telling those stories
I'm pretty good at predicting what
gameplay features we're going to
introduce we usually do that but the
stories someone always comes up with a
her story when you live with a guy in a
world for you know two or three years
the stories to start popping into your
head and so the ones that you make up
the day you start thinking about it or
never the ones you end up making so I
full of course place a very important
role what do you feel it is about him
that you sort of because you you were
very passionate about you wanting to
bring him back and sort of all that
thing what is it about and that you that
you really like I love Oswald I mean
he's he's like a the most cartoony
character I think Disney ever created I
mean Mickey is he's very sort of
grounded in reality it's hard to imagine
him popping his head off you know and
using it like a bowling ball but Oswald
does that all the time it's hard to
imagine Mickey you know popping his arm
off and and throwing it like a boomerang
which Oswald does all the time it's hard
to imagine Mickey getting squashed by an
anvil well at all actually but it's hard
to imagine be getting squash mine handle
and then turning into twelve little
Mickey's that run around all over the
place Ozil does that all the time he's
just an amazingly cartoony character and
I just find out really appealing but
then there's his personal story right i
mean it's if you want to get really you
know sort of all like you know fairy
tale or you know the legendary about him
he's it's almost like biblical the story
of Oswald older brother rejected by his
father Walt Disney in favor of younger
brother Mickey Mouse right I mean it's a
Bible story and and the idea that this
this this beautiful little lucky rabbit
funny and and and golf full of chaos and
Anarchy just forgotten and rejected how
can you not love that you know I want to
I want to make him more popular than
mickey mouse you know I mean it's like I
feel it's my obligation everybody
junction point feels that way he's he's
real to us in a way that's very twisted